Welcome to the Secret Diary of Adrian Mole from Level 9 and Mosaic. If you are loading from tape, and it is still running, STOP THE TAPE IMMEDIATELY.
 
 
 
Thursday  January 1st  BANK HOLIDAY IN ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND AND WALES.
These are my new year resolutions: 
1. I will help the blind across the road. 
2. I will hang my trousers up. 
3. I will put the sleeves back on my records. 
4. I will not start smoking. 
5. I will stop squeezing my spots. 
6. I will be kind to the dog. 
7. I will help the poor and ignorant. 
8. After hearing the disgusting noises from downstairs last night, I have also vowed never to drink alcohol. 
9. I will try to make everyone like me. 
 
My father got the dog drunk on cherry brandy at the party last night. If the RSPCA hear about it he could get done.
 
Friday  January 2nd  BANK HOLIDAY IN SCOTLAND. FULL MOON.
I feel rotten today. It's my mother's fault for singing 'My Way' at two o'clock in the morning at the top of the stairs at the top of her voice. Just my luck to have a mother like her. I wish people could choose their mothers! There is a chance my parents could be alcoholics. Next year I could be in a Children's Home.
 
Saturday  January 3rd.
Today was a dead loss. This is what comes of living in a cul-de-sac.
 
Sunday  January 4th  SECOND AFTER CHRISTMAS.
The dog choked on a chicken bone but we held it upside down and banged it hard, and the bone fell out. I've left the dog at grandma's to recover from its ordeal.
 
Monday  January 5th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 40 percent, which makes me a lowly schoolboy.
 
Looked at 'Big and Bouncy'. Measured my thing. It was eleven centimetres.
 
Tuesday  January 6th  EPIPHANY. NEW MOON.
I think I am turning into an intellectual. It must be all the worry. 
 
I will look up 'Epiphany' in my new dictionary.
 
Wednesday  January 7th.
 
Thursday  January 8th.
 
Friday  January 9th.
Read 'War and Peace'. It is like a Russian version of 'Dallas'.
 
Saturday  January 10th.
 
Sunday  January 11th  FIRST AFTER EPIPHANY.
 
Monday  January 12th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 40 percent, which makes me a lowly schoolboy.
 
 
Tuesday  January 13th.
Mr Lucas came in this morning to see if my mother needed any help in the house. He is very kind.
 
Wednesday  January 14th.
There is a new girl in our class. She sits next to me in Geography. She is all right. Her name is Pandora, but she likes being called 'Box'. Don't ask me why. I might fall in love with her. It's time I fell in love, after all I am thirteen and three quarters years old.
 
Thursday  January 15th.
Pandora has got hair the colour of treacle, and it's long like girls' hair should be. Her eyes are the same colour as the dog's. She has quite a good figure. I saw her playing netball and her chest was wobbling. I felt a bit funny. I think this is it!
 
Friday  January 16th.
It is Geography today so I sit next to Pandora for a whole hour. She looks better every day.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) tell Pandora about her eyes being the same as the dog's.
2) lend Pandora my blue felt-tip pen.
3) try indulging in small-talk.
#title: Secret Diary of Adrian Mole test script
#comment: MSX version
9
 
Type someone's name to learn about them, a command, HELP for a list of commands, or 1-9 to return to the game. Then press ENTER or RETURN.
#seed 42
Seed set to 42
RESTART
 
 
Thursday  January 1st  BANK HOLIDAY IN ENGLAND, IRELAND, SCOTLAND AND WALES.
These are my new year resolutions: 
1. I will help the blind across the road. 
2. I will hang my trousers up. 
3. I will put the sleeves back on my records. 
4. I will not start smoking. 
5. I will stop squeezing my spots. 
6. I will be kind to the dog. 
7. I will help the poor and ignorant. 
8. After hearing the disgusting noises from downstairs last night, I have also vowed never to drink alcohol. 
9. I will try to make everyone like me. 
 
My father got the dog drunk on cherry brandy at the party last night. If the RSPCA hear about it he could get done.
 
Friday  January 2nd  BANK HOLIDAY IN SCOTLAND. FULL MOON.
I feel rotten today. It's my mother's fault for singing 'My Way' at two o'clock in the morning at the top of the stairs at the top of her voice. Just my luck to have a mother like her. I wish people could choose their mothers! There is a chance my parents could be alcoholics. Next year I could be in a Children's Home.
 
Saturday  January 3rd.
 
Sunday  January 4th  SECOND AFTER CHRISTMAS.
Sent a poem to the BBC. It is called 'The Tap' but it is really very deep, about life and stuff like that: 
The tap drips and keeps me awake, 
In the morning there will be a lake. 
For the want of a washer the carpet will spoil, 
Then for another my father will toil. 
My father could snuff it while he is at work. 
Dad, fit a washer don't be a burke!
 
Monday  January 5th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 40 percent, which makes me a lowly schoolboy.
 
 
Tuesday  January 6th  EPIPHANY. NEW MOON.
I think I am turning into an intellectual. It must be all the worry. 
 
I will look up 'Epiphany' in my new dictionary.
 
Wednesday  January 7th.
Read 'War and Peace'. It is like a Russian version of 'Dallas'.
 
Thursday  January 8th.
 
Friday  January 9th.
 
Saturday  January 10th.
 
Sunday  January 11th  FIRST AFTER EPIPHANY.
Mr Lucas came in this morning to see if my mother needed any help in the house. He is very kind.
 
Monday  January 12th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 40 percent, which makes me a lowly schoolboy.
 
 
Tuesday  January 13th.
My mother is not doing any tidying up. There has been a slice of bacon between the cooker and the fridge for three days to my knowledge.
 
Wednesday  January 14th.
There is a new girl in our class. She sits next to me in Geography. She is all right. Her name is Pandora, but she likes being called 'Box'. Don't ask me why. I might fall in love with her. It's time I fell in love, after all I am thirteen and three quarters years old.
 
I think my poetry is a bit morbid, it is normally very deep and profound and reflects deeply on Life. The BBC does quite a lot of comic poetry, so I have tried satire for a change. An artist must write about lots of different things! 
 
My first comic piece is about Mr Dock's car. He is our English teacher. 
 
Dock Leaf's got a Fiat, covered in red rust. 
Its paint is blue, its smoke is too, 
The wing mirrors are bust. 
 
Dock Leaf's in his banger, bouncing down the lane. 
The engine coughs, exhaust falls off 
And then it stops again. 
 
There are twelve verses and it took ages to write; almost thirty minutes.
 
Thursday  January 15th.
Brought my poem to school.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) show the poem to Nigel.
2) show the poem to Pandora.
3) keep the poem secret.
3
I keep the poem secret. After all, it is about a teacher. I do not want to take foolish risks.Pandora has got hair the colour of treacle, and it's long like girls' hair should be. Her eyes are the same colour as the dog's. She has quite a good figure. I saw her playing netball and her chest was wobbling. I felt a bit funny. I think this is it!
 
Friday  January 16th.
It is Geography today so I sit next to Pandora for a whole hour. She looks better every day.
What shall I do?
1) lend Pandora my blue felt-tip pen.
2) tell Pandora about her eyes being the same as the dog's.
3) try indulging in small-talk.
3
I try indulging in small-talk and tell Pandora about Cecil, my prolific hamster; a cute little creature with golden fur. The small-talk is rapidly growing into a conversation when Pandora asks to see him.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) have to admit that Cecil is no more.
2) return to my work.
3) pretend that Cecil is temporarily absent.
3
I pretend that Cecil is temporarily absent and will return soon. It does not sound very convincing, I'm afraid.
 
Saturday  January 17th.
I was woken early this morning. Mrs Lucas is concreting the front of their house and the concrete lorry had to keep its engine running while she shovelled the concrete around before it set. Mr Lucas made her a cup of tea. He really is kind.
 
Sunday  January 18th  SECOND AFTER EPIPHANY. OXFORD HILARY TERM STARTS.
 
Monday  January 19th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 38 percent, which makes me a middling thicko.
 
My mother isn't very bright. She still hasn't washed my PE shorts and I need them tomorrow. She is not like the mothers on television.
 
Tuesday  January 20th  FULL MOON.
 
Wednesday  January 21st.
I saw Nigel on the way home. He told me Pandora's father was a milkman! I have gone off her a bit.
 
Thursday  January 22nd.
Bump into Pandora.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) ask her about her father.
2) say that her father's lowly job doesn't matter to me.
3) ask if she gets cheap yoghurt.
3
I ask if she gets cheap yoghurt. Pandora will look into it.
 
Friday  January 23rd.
Went to the barber's today. I asked for a 'flick-head' (the latest style) but the barber, an Italian geriatric of at least forty, said he had never heard of it and cut my hair in a short back and sides. I will have to wear a hat at all times!
 
Saturday  January 24th.
Pandora can't get discounted dairy products after all. I have gone off her a lot.
 
Sunday  January 25th  THIRD AFTER EPIPHANY.
My mother has got a job doing her rotten typing in an insurance office! She starts on Monday! Mr Lucas works at the same place. He is going to give her a lift every day.
 
Monday  January 26th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 39 percent, which makes me an average thicko.
 
 
Tuesday  January 27th.
Nigel has asked me to a disco at the youth club tonight; it is being held to raise funds for a new packet of ping-pong balls. I don't know if I will go because Nigel is a punk at weekends. His mother lets him be one providing he wears a string vest under his bondage T-shirt.
What shall I do?
1) stay at home.
2) go to the disco.
3) invite Pandora to the disco.
3
I invite Pandora to the disco. She is already invited by four other boys.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) stay at home.
2) go to the disco.
3) investigate the disco.
3
I investigate the disco. It sounds OK from outside so I enter for five pence. What a mistake!
 
This is the last time I come to a disco! Everybody here is a punk except me and Rick Lemon, the youth leader. Nigel has been showing off all night. Now he wants to put a safety pin through his ear.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) watch.
2) put a safety pin through my ear.
3) help Pandora to stop him.
3
I help Pandora to stop him.
 
Wednesday  January 28th  LAST QUARTER.
Now I KNOW I am an intellectual. I saw Malcolm Muggeridge on the television last night and understood nearly every word.
 
Thursday  January 29th.
Postmen on strike. My father is delighted, it means we can't get any bills.
 
Friday  January 30th.
 
Saturday  January 31st.
Pandora is going out with Nigel!!!!! I think I will never get over this shock.
 
Sunday  February 1st  FOURTH AFTER EPIPHANY.
10 a.M. I am ill with all the worry, too weak to write more. Nobody has noticed that I haven't eaten any breakfast.
 
2 p.M. Had two junior aspirins at midday and rallied a bit. Perhaps when I am famous and my diary is discovered people will understand the torment of being an almost fourteen year old undiscovered intellectual.
 
Midnight. Had a crab-paste sandwich and a satsuma (for the good of my skin). Felt a bit better. I hope Nigel falls off his racing bike and is squashed flat by a lorry.
 
Monday  February 2nd  PRESENTATION.
I, Adrian Mole, score 42 percent, which makes me an unimportant schoolboy.
 
Pandora! Why?
 
Tuesday  February 3rd.
 
Wednesday  February 4th  NEW MOON.
Early this morning I saw Pandora walking down the drive of 69 Elm Tree Avenue. She had a riding hat and jodhpurs on so she couldn't have been on the way to school. I couldn't let her see me. I was delivering charity envelopes and I didn't want her to know that I was doing a menial job. Also I didn't know what to say. So now I know where Pandora lives!
What shall I do?
1) have a good look at the house.
2) find out where she is going.
3) respect her privacy.
3
I respect her privacy.
 
Thursday  February 5th.
Barry Kent has been done by the police for riding a bike without a rear light. I hope he gets sent to a detention centre. A short sharp shock would do him good.
 
Friday  February 6th  THE QUEEN'S ACCESSION, 1952.
Pandora and Nigel have split up! It is all round the school. This is the best news I have had for ages.
 
Saturday  February 7th.
The dog choked on a chicken bone but we held it upside down and banged it hard, and the bone fell out. I've left the dog at grandma's to recover from its ordeal.
 
Sunday  February 8th  FIFTH AFTER EPIPHANY.
 
Monday  February 9th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 41 percent, which makes me a namby-pamby schoolboy.
 
I have joined a group at school called the Good Samaritans. We go out into the community helping and stuff like that. We miss Maths on Monday. 
 
I have been put in the old age pensioners group. I will get a cassette so I can tape all the old fogeys' stories about war and stuff. I hope I get one with a good memory.
 
Tuesday  February 10th.
The Samaritans met today during break. The old people were shared out. I have got an old man called Bert Baxter. He is eighty nine so I don't suppose I'll have him for long. I'm going round to see him soon. I hope he hasn't got a dog. I'm fed up with dogs. They are either at the vet's or standing in front of the television.
 
Wednesday  February 11th  FIRST QUARTER.
 
Thursday  February 12th  LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY.
An estate agent's catalogue came through the door today. I have put it in the dustbin before my parents can see it and get ideas.
 
Friday  February 13th.
My father wouldn't give me a note excusing me from Games so I was nearly frozen to death.
 
Saturday  February 14th  ST VALENTINE'S DAY.
Go to see Bert Baxter after tea. My father dropped me off on his way to play badminton. Mr Baxter's house is hidden behind a massive overgrown privet hedge. I knock on the door but nothing happens.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) knock again.
2) leave.
3) go round the house to look in a window.
3
I go round the house to look in a window. The first thing I see is an enormous massive Alsatian leaping up, barking madly, and trying to scratch through the glass to get me. I run back to the front door and I hear the sounds of bottles being knocked over and a man swearing.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) write a note and push it through the door.
2) continue knocking.
3) run off.
3
I run off. I hope I got the wrong house!
 
A very nice man called Brother Ludovic has just called at the house and spoken to me at great length about the Meaning of Life. He was wearing very strange purple robes and had a shaved head. He explained that ordinary clothes and hairstyles symbolised something called 'spiritual death'. Brother Ludovic belongs to a religious society called the Purple People. He asked me to join. I asked him what this entailed but before he could tell me, my parents drew up in the car and Brother Ludovic ran off. He said, "Parents are evil. We will speak again, O child."
What shall I do?
1) ask Directory Enquiries about the Purple People.
2) think hard.
3) tell Nigel.
3
I tell Nigel about the Purple People. He says he is not interested in fringe religions because "there is no money in it". Nigel thinks you can find the Meaning of Life in a dictionary!
 
Sunday  February 15th  SEPTUAGESIMA.
 
Monday  February 16th  WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVANCE.
I, Adrian Mole, score 38 percent, which makes me a middling thicko.
 
Bert Baxter has phoned the school to complain that I didn't turn up to help him. He thinks it is typical of today's youth. I told Mr Scruton, the headmaster, what really happened but I can tell that he didn't believe me. He gave me a lecture on how old people fought for me during the World Wars. He has ordered me back to Mr Baxter's house.
 
I am going through a religious experience. Brother Ludovic met me out of school and explained at great length about his religious beliefs. He said that money, exams and work are evil. He advised me to give him all my money and not to do my O levels. He also told me not to tell my parents about our conversation. I made arrangements to visit the Purple People's headquarters soon. The address is 20a Disraeli Terrace.
 
Tuesday  February 17th.
Went to Bert Baxter's. He didn't answer the door. Perhaps he is dead.
 
Wednesday  February 18th  FULL MOON.
Thought about Bert Baxter.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) go to his house again.
2) persuade Nigel to go.
3) don't go.
3
I don't go. Mr Baxter does not deserve me.
 
Thursday  February 19th  PRINCE ANDREW BORN, 1960.
 
Friday  February 20th.
Read 'Origin of Species'. It is not as good as the TV series.
 
Saturday  February 21st.
Get up early to have a bath, then experiment with a purple bath towel, wrapping it round myself like brother Ludovic does. Toy with the idea of shaving my head.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) shave half my hair off.
2) shave all my hair off.
3) decide not to.
3
I decide not to in the end.
Considered visiting Brother Ludovic.
What shall I do?
1) go round to number 20a Disraeli Terrace.
2) decide against it.
3) tell my parents.
3
I tell my parents about the Purple People.
They decide I can't be trusted to keep my Building Society savings book in my room. My mother says: "You'd give your money to any Tom, Dick or Ludovic who asked for it." This is not fair! I didn't part with any money, did I?
 
My mother is on at me to visit Mr Baxter.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) leave the Samaritans.
2) go to his house again.
3) persuade Nigel to go.
3
I persuade Nigel to go. He doesn't like his job looking after kids in a playgroup. In fact he is as sick as a parrot. Nigel is delighted to swap with me and visit a real old age pensioner. (He has not met Bert Baxter!)
 
Sunday  February 22nd  SEXAGESIMA.
 
Monday  February 23rd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 38 percent, which makes me a middling thicko.
 
I am feeling rebellious, so I will wear red socks to school tomorrow. It is strictly forbidden, but I don't care any more. Anyway, they are the only clean pair I can find.
 
Tuesday  February 24th  ST MATTHIAS.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) wear the socks over my shoes.
2) wear only one red sock.
3) put on the red socks.
3
I put on the red socks and go to school. 
 
Miss Sproxton spotted my red socks in assembly! The old bag reported me to pop-eyed Scruton. He had me in his office and gave me a lecture on the dangers of being a nonconformist. Then he sent me home to change into regulation black socks.
What shall I do?
1) return to school in red socks.
2) change to black socks and return to school.
3) tell my father.
3
I tell my father. He instantly turns into a raving loony! He phones the school, drags Scruton out of a caretakers' strike meeting and shouts about victimisation. Scruton says if I come to school in black socks everything will be forgiven but my father says I will wear whatever socks I like. Scruton says he is anxious to maintain standards. My father says the England World Cup team in 1966 did not wear black socks, nor did Sir Edmund Hilary in 1953. He puts the 'phone down, saying "Round one to me".
Choose one of the following for me:
1) take off my socks and return to school.
2) stay at home for the rest of the day.
3) change to black socks and return to school.
3
I change to black socks and return to school. It is the only thing to do.
 
Wednesday  February 25th.
Nigel thinks Bert Baxter is great when you get to know him. Nigel says he is dead clean and tidy, doesn't drink or smoke and is always telling funny stories about the war. It certainly shows that you can't judge by first impressions! 
 
Nigel is very happy visiting Bert but he doesn't think it's fair on me. I should have a turn too.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) tell Nigel I'd rather look after playgroup kids.
2) go to meet Bert Baxter.
3) leave the Samaritans.
3
I leave the Samaritans, there are very few other members anyway.
 
Nigel's parents are going to London for the weekend so Nigel is throwing a party on Saturday night for 50 close friends. Nigel's parents don't know about the party. All guests must dress in black from head to toe; and all must bring a bottle.
What shall I do?
1) ask my mother to buy me a black outfit.
2) buy a tin of black dye.
3) buy a can of black paint.
3
I buy a can of black paint to paint everything with. Paint plimsolls, jeans etc and leave on bedroom floor. 
 
Return to find dog lying on top of them, unable to move because it is stuck to the paint. Brutalise dog, then spend the next hour pulling dog hairs off clothes with tweezers. Clothes stiff like plate armour.
 
Thursday  February 26th.
Woke up, had the type of mystical vision which changes your entire life, went to school, visited Bert Baxter. 
 
In the vision, Sue Townsend (housewife, superstar and mother of many) appeared surrounded by choirs of TV researchers. She spoke golden words of infinite wisdom. "Listen Mole, you pretentious little moron, Bert Baxter is my favourite character and I am not letting you get rid of him. You, kid, are going to meet him whether you like it or not." My God!
 
Friday  February 27th  LAST QUARTER.
 
Bert Baxter is not a nice old age pensioner at all! He smokes and drinks beer and has an Alsatian dog called Sabre who has to be locked in the kitchen. He didn't stop growling once. 
 
Bert Baxter's bedroom is the most disgusting room I have ever seen (and I'm no stranger to squalor). It is probably because he eats beetroot sandwiches in bed. 
 
Bert Baxter gave me ten pence to buy the Morning Star from the newsagent's. So he is a communist as well as everything else! This is just my luck for being a Good Samaritan!
 
Saturday  February 28th.
Nigel's party was dead disappointing; it finished at 9.30 when a neighbour told the police that black-clothed devil worshippers had broken into Nigel's house.
 
Sunday  March 1st  QUINQUAGESIMA. ST DAVID'S DAY.
Nigel's parents have locked him in the house. He is not allowed out until the black footprints have been removed from the lounge carpet.
 
Monday  March 2nd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 37 percent, which makes me an ordinary thicko.
 
The dog has been sent to the beauty shop to have black paint cut out of its fur.
 
Tuesday  March 3rd  SHROVE TUESDAY.
It is a pity there aren't more intellectuals living round here. Mr Lucas wears corduroy trousers but he is an insurance man. Just my luck.
 
Wednesday  March 4th  ASH WEDNESDAY.
Mr Lucas was in the kitchen with my mother. The room was full of smoke. They were laughing but when I came in, they stopped. 
 
Mrs Lucas was next door cleaning the drains. She looked as if she was in a bad mood. I think Mr and Mrs Lucas have got an unhappy marriage. Poor Mr Lucas!
 
Thursday  March 5th.
 
Friday  March 6th  NEW MOON.
Woke up with tongue ache. I've never heard of anyone suffering from tongue ache before. Perhaps I will make medical history.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) keep quiet about it.
2) tell my mother.
3) try and talk without moving my tongue.
3
I try and talk without moving my tongue. A dismal failure. Not only does my tongue ache more, but my teeth feel funny. Perhaps I have lockjaw.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) consult the library encyclopaedia.
2) ignore the tongue ache.
3) book an appointment with Dr Gray.
3
I book an appointment with Dr Gray though his receptionist will not let me see him for ages. By then my jaw could be irreversibly locked!
 
Saturday  March 7th.
My mother has gone to a women's workshop on assertiveness training. Men aren't allowed. I asked my father what 'assertiveness training' is. He said "God knows, but whatever it is, it's bad news for me". 
 
We had boil-in-the-bag cod in butter sauce and oven-cooked chips for dinner. My father opened a bottle of Austrian white wine and let me have some. I don't know much about wine but it seemed a pleasant enough vintage, very smooth and warming. We watched a repeated film on television, then my mother came home and started bossing us around. She said "The worm has turned", and "Things are going to be different around here", and things like that. Then she went into the kitchen and started making a chart dividing all the housework into three.
What shall I do?
1) agree with my mother's idea.
2) point out I do a lot anyway.
3) go out to let it blow over.
3
I go out to let it blow over. I come back to find the chart pinned to my door.
 
Sunday  March 8th  FIRST IN LENT.
I did body-building exercises for most of the day. I measured my muscles this evening, but there is no improvement.
 
Monday  March 9th  COMMONWEALTH DAY.
I, Adrian Mole, score 34 percent, which makes me a mediocre thicko.
 
Got up. Looked at the chart of jobs on the wall.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) start doing them.
2) think about applying to the European Court.
3) refuse to do the work.
3
I refuse to do the work. My refusal lasts about 2 minutes; my mother can be very convincing when she tries!
 
Cleaned toilet, washed basin and bath. Made breakfast, put washing in machine, went to school. Had school dinner. Had Domestic Science - made apple crumble. Came home. Vacuumed hall, lounge and breakfast room. Peeled potatoes, chopped up cabbage, cut finger, rinsed blood off cabbage. Put chops under grill, looked in cookery book for recipe for gravy. Made gravy. Strained lumps out with a colander. Set table, served dinner, washed up. Put burnt saucepans in to soak. Got washing out of machine; everything blue, including white underwear and handkerchiefs. Hung washing on clothes-horse. Fed dog. Ironed PE kit, cleaned shoes. Did homework. Took dog for a walk, had bath. Cleaned bath. Made three cups of tea. Washed cups up. Went to bed. Just my luck to have an assertive mother!
 
Dr Gray wasn't interested in hearing about my tongue ache. He told me off for wasting his time. He said I was a malingering hypochondriac and has ordered me not to be ill for at least six months. 
 
I promise to try.
 
Tuesday  March 10th  PRINCE EDWARD BORN, 1964.
Prince Edward in newspaper. Why couldn't I have been born he, and he me? I am treated like a serf.
 
Wednesday  March 11th.
 
Thursday  March 12th.
 
Friday  March 13th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
Just my luck, I've got a pimple on the end of my chin.
 
Saturday  March 14th.
Woke up this morning to find my face covered in huge red spots. My mother said that they were caused by nerves but I am still convinced that my diet is inadequate. We have been eating a lot of boil-in-the-bag stuff lately. Perhaps I am allergic to plastic.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) do the housework as usual.
2) stay in bed.
3) ring grandma for help.
3
I ring grandma for help and she comes round in a taxi to take me to her house and put me to bed. I am there now. It is very clean and peaceful with no jobs to do. I am wearing my dead grandad's pyjamas. I have just had a bowl of barley and beef soup. It is my first proper nourishment for weeks. 
 
I expect there will be a row when my mother comes home and finds that I have gone. But frankly, my dear diary, I don't give a damn.My father has got the flu. I'm not surprised with the diet we get. My mother wants to go out in the rain to get him a vitamin C drink, but as I tell her, "It's too late now". It's a miracle we don't all get scurvy.
What shall I do?
1) try to persuade my mother to stay indoors.
2) let my mother go.
3) bravely venture out into the rain.
3
I bravely venture out into the rain with #1 from my mother. 
 
The chemist has changed into a drug store. It is full of nappies, baby foods and health biscuits. But no drugs. I ask an assistant where they are, but she just gives me a funny look. 
 
At last I find the flu medicines. They are on some narrow shelves in the corner, hidden by sneezing customers.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) choose some time-pills called Cold Comfort.
2) choose a cheap powder called Lemon-Aid.
3) choose a lipstick called Nose Nurse.
3
I choose a lipstick called Nose Nurse because it was on TV. Also so I can find out how a lipstick cures colds.
 
The assistant is whispering to the checkout woman as I go to pay. They probably think I am noble to go shopping on such an awful day.
 
Sunday  March 15th  SECOND IN LENT.
My father is still lazing about in bed. He is supposed to be ill, but I notice he is still smoking!
 
The spot on my chin is getting bigger. It is my mother's fault for not knowing about vitamins.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) put Savlon on the spot.
2) put a plaster over the spot.
3) scratch the spot.
3
I scratch the spot to release the pressure. Yeuck!
 
Monday  March 16th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 33 percent, which makes me an unimportant thicko.
 
I have found a word in the dictionary which describes my father. It is malingerer. He is still in bed guzzling vitamin C.
 
The spot is itching like mad.
 
Tuesday  March 17th  ST PATRICK'S DAY. BANK HOLIDAY IN N. IRELAND AND REP. OF IRELAND.
I think the spot is a boil. Just my luck to have it where everyone can see it
What shall I do?
1) squeeze the spot.
2) show the spot to my mother.
3) try to ignore the spot.
3
I try to ignore the spot but this is difficult. It seems to stare back whenever I go near a mirror.
 
Wednesday  March 18th.
There are mirrors everywhere. Pandora caught me looking at the spot reflected in a glass door, a metal lamp and a shop window. She said that she might understand me being vain if I had anything to be vain about. I explained about the spot, but she just said "Adrian, I would respect you more if you didn't make up such ridiculous excuses".
 
Thursday  March 19th.
My father got his car back from the garage today. He was cleaning it and gloating over it for a whole two hours. I noticed that the stick-on waving hand I bought him for Christmas was missing from the rear window. I told him he ought to complain to the garage but he said he didn't want to make a fuss.
 
Friday  March 20th  FIRST DAY OF SPRING. FULL MOON.
 
Saturday  March 21st.
P.C. Gordon called today. Someone has reported me for trying to buy drugs. It is not true! 
 
The policeman explained how dangerous drugs are, while my parents looked at me suspiciously. I could tell my mother was dead worried, she lit two cigarettes at the same time and didn't complain when my father's beer can sprayed the carpet. I denied everything.
 
Sunday  March 22nd  THIRD IN LENT. BRITISH SUMMER TIME BEGINS.
Pandora says I will have a criminal record on the police computer. She is getting up a petition about it. 
 
She comforted me emotionally behind her father's tool shed, so the day was not all bad.
 
Monday  March 23rd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 34 percent, which makes me a mediocre thicko.
 
Great news! Mars bars have got bigger!
 
Tuesday  March 24th.
It all adds up. A bad home, poor diet, not liking punk. I am definitely an intellectual.
 
Wednesday  March 25th  ANNUNCIATION OF B.V.MARY.
 
Thursday  March 26th.
 
Friday  March 27th.
 
Saturday  March 28th  LAST QUARTER.
 
Sunday  March 29th  FOURTH IN LENT. MOTHERING SUNDAY.
My mother has arranged what she called a 'civilised meeting' for tomorrow. Mr Lucas is going to be there. Naturally I am not invited. I am going to listen at the door.
 
Monday  March 30th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 34 percent, which makes me a mediocre thicko.
 
A terrible thing happened last night. My father and Mr Lucas had a fight in the FRONT garden, the whole street came outside to watch! My mother tried to separate them but they both told her to "keep out of it". Mr O'Leary tried to help my father, he kept shouting "Give the smarmy bugger one for me, George". The civilised meeting broke up at about five o'clock when my father found out how long my mother and Mr Lucas had been in love. 
 
The fight was quite exciting really. I had a good view from my bedroom window. Mrs O'Leary said, "'Tis the child I feel sorry for", and all the people looked up and saw me, so I looked especially sad. I expect the incident will give me a trauma at some stage in the future. I'm all right at the moment, but you never know.
 
Tuesday  March 31st.
My mother has gone to Sheffield with Mr Lucas. I am the child of a one-parent family.
 
I, Adrian Mole, score 34 percent, which makes me a mediocre thicko.
 
 
That's the end of this part of the game. Would you like to continue with the next part? 
YES
Check the program tape/disk is in the drive and press ENTER or RETURN. If using tape, check the recorder is set to PLAY (if the tape isn't moving, press ENTER or RETURN again).
 
Welcome to part two of the Secret Diary of Adrian Mole from Level 9 and Mosaic. If you are loading from tape, and it has not stopped, then STOP THE TAPE IMMEDIATELY.
 
 
Wednesday  April 1st  ALL FOOL'S DAY.
Nigel rang up this morning and pretended he was an undertaker and asked when he was to pick up the body. Honestly! He has got no sense of humour.
 
I had a good laugh telling girls that their petticoats were showing when they weren't. 
 
I was born exactly thirteen years and three hundred and sixty-four days ago.
 
Thursday  April 2nd.
I am fourteen today! Got a track suit and a football from my father. (He is completely insensitive to my needs.) Best of all was ten pounds from my mother and five pounds from Mr Lucas. (Conscience money.) 
 
Nigel sent a joke card; it said on the front, "Who's sexy, charming, intelligent and handsome?" Inside it said, "Well it certainly ain't you buddy!!!" Nigel wrote "No offence mate". He put ten pence inside the envelope.
 
So at last I am fourteen! Had a good look at myself in the mirror tonight and I think I can detect a certain maturity. (Apart from the rotten spots.)
 
Friday  April 3rd.
I have formed a club for non-smokers at school. It's called Stub It Out, or SIT for short. Our club activities consist of drawing lurid posters showing smokers coughing and choking and searching first years for fags and matches.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) visit Headmaster Scruton.
2) invite my parents to join.
3) invite Pandora to join.
3
I invite Pandora to join, but she says it would not be honest for her to participate unless she was a convinced non-smoker. She hopes to join when she finishes her current box of Benson & Hedges.
 
There is hope when Pandora's box is empty. (An intellectual joke.) Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
Got full marks in the Geography test today. Yes! I am proud to report that I got twenty out of twenty! I was also complimented on the neat presentation of my work. There is nothing that I do not know about the Norwegian leather industry.
 
Saturday  April 4th  NEW MOON.
 
Sunday  April 5th  PASSION SUNDAY.
Looked at "Big and Bouncy". It is Passion Sunday after all!
 
Monday  April 6th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 33 percent, which makes me an unimportant thicko.
 
I am a prefect! My first duty is as late duty prefect. I have to wait by the gap in the railings and take the name of anyone sneaking late into school.
 
It is dead good because I get to miss morning assembly.
 
Tuesday  April 7th.
 
Wednesday  April 8th.
School filthy. The cleaners are on strike.
 
Thursday  April 9th.
The house is looking extremely squalid because my father is not doing any housework. The dog is pining for my mother.
 
Friday  April 10th.
Second meeting of SIT. We resolve that further action is needed.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) lead a deputation from SIT to the staff room.
2) get up a petition against smoking.
3) lecture the filthy smokers in the boys' toilets.
3
I lecture the filthy smokers in the boys' toilets about the evils of smoking. It does little good.
 
They threaten to put my head down the toilet, but I don't flinch in my duties as saints are used to being ill-treated by the ignorant.
 
Saturday  April 11th  FIRST QUARTER.
Had a postcard from my mother. She is living in a flat in Sheffield and wants me to visit her and Lucas as soon as possible.
 
Why can't my mother write a letter like any normal person? Why should the postman be able to read my confidential business?
What shall I do?
1) ask my father if I can go.
2) make up my mind to go immediately, without telling my father.
3) decide to go by train without paying.
3
I decide to go by train without paying. It is not really cheating because I can't afford the fare and my alternative would be hitch-hiking so BR would not be paid anyway. All it costs them is a a few extra drops of fuel. That's what Nigel says, anyway.
 
Sunday  April 12th  PALM SUNDAY.
7.45 a.M. At Leicester Station. Must get onto the train for Sheffield without a proper ticket.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) buy a platform ticket.
2) pretend to have left something on a train.
3) mingle with a group of people entering.
3
I mingle with a group of people entering, and try to reach the platform unseen. But the ticket collector calls me back. I am compelled to buy a platform ticket.
The journey is dead scary. I keep expecting a guard to appear. 
 
8.24 a.M. Trapped on a train near Sheffield. Must think of a way to leave.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) make up my mind to find a back way out of Sheffield station.
2) mingle with the departing passengers.
3) leap from the moving train.
3
I leap from the moving train, or rather I try to. The train slows down near the station but the door is very stiff. As I struggle with it, a man stops me leaving. Jumping would be very dangerous.
What shall I do?
1) make up my mind to find a back way out of Sheffield station.
2) give myself up.
3) mingle with the departing passengers.
3
I mingle with the departing passengers and push past the ticket barrier. But a guard grabs me.
I am treated like a criminal! Imprisoned in the station office until my mother pays my fare. She is not pleased.
My mother started crying when she saw me. It was a bit embarrassing but quite nice at the same time. We got a taxi from the station, Sheffield looks OK, just like home really. I didn't see any knife and fork factories. I expect Margaret Thatcher has closed them all down.
 
Lucas was out flogging insurance so I had my mother all to myself until eight o'clock. The flat is dead grotty, it is modern but small. You can hear the neighbours coughing. My mother is used to better things. I am dead tired, so will stop.
 
I wish my mother would come home, I had forgotten how nice she is.
 
Monday  April 13th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 29 percent, which makes me a middling creep.
 
My mother wants to show me Sheffield.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) say I will only come if she will come back to Leicester at the end of the week.
2) go shopping.
3) say I am not interested in Sheffield.
3
I say I am not interested in Sheffield and we have a serious argument. My mother says my nose is always in a book or stuck up in the air, it is the fault of my father.
 
Eventually I am persuaded to go out.
 
We had a Chinese Businessman's Lunch and then went to see a Monty Python film all about the life of Jesus. It was dead daring, I felt guilty laughing.
 
Lucas got back early and cooked dinner.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) manage to force it down.
2) say I am not hungry.
3) add lots of salt while he is not looking.
3
I add lots of salt while he is not looking, so the food tastes revolting. Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
Later on I phoned my father from a call-box; I just had time to shout, "Don't forget to feed the dog", before the pips went. 
 
Retired to bed early because of all the slopping Lucas was doing.
 
Tuesday  April 14th.
Helped my mother to paint her kitchen. She is doing it brown and cream, it looks awful, just like the toilets at school.
 
Lucas has bought me a penknife. He is trying to bribe me into liking him again.
What shall I do?
1) accept the penknife.
2) refuse the penknife.
3) state my opinion of the kitchen.
3
I state my opinion of the kitchen and the flat. I explain in detail that it is bloody awful. My mother and Lucas are speechless.
 
Wednesday  April 15th.
Lucas was not at work today so I had to put up with his lechery all day. He is constantly touching my mother's hand or kissing her or putting his arm round her shoulders, I don't know how she stands it, it would drive me mad.
 
He and my mother are driving out into the countryside this afternoon.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) go with them.
2) go along but remain in the car.
3) stay behind.
3
I stay behind and go for a trudge round Sheffield instead.
 
Came back, had a bath, thought about the dog, went to sleep. Home tomorrow.
 
Thursday  April 16th.
2.10 p.M. So my little sojourn in Sheffield is drawing to a close. I am catching the 7.10 p.M. Train which only leaves five hours to do my packing. My father was right. I didn't need two suitcases of clothes. Still it is better to be safe than sorry, I always say. I shan't be sorry to leave this sordid flat with the coughing neighbours, though naturally I have some regrets about my mother's stubbornness in refusing to come home with me.
 
11 p.M. My father met me at the station, the dog jumped up to meet me, missed, and nearly fell in front of the 9.23 p.M. Birmingham express.
 
Friday  April 17th  GOOD FRIDAY.
 
Saturday  April 18th.
Stayed in bed until 6 p.M.
 
Sunday  April 19th  EASTER SUNDAY.
Found a bird's nest in Bert Baxter's hedge. Now the hedge can't be trimmed this year. It will grow into a jungle.
 
Monday  April 20th  BANK HOLIDAY IN UK (EXCEPT SCOTLAND).
I, Adrian Mole, score 27 percent, which makes me a suburban creep.
 
 
Tuesday  April 21st.
Nothing happened today.
 
Wednesday  April 22nd.
Went to see the vicar tonight. I asked him about the meaning of life but he was too busy to reply. Just my luck!
 
Thursday  April 23rd  ST GEORGE'S DAY.
Just measured my thing. It has grown one centimetre. I might be needing it soon.
 
Friday  April 24th.
Bert Baxter keeps taking his new set of false teeth out for a look. Fortunately I possess a strong stomach.
 
Saturday  April 25th.
 
Sunday  April 26th.
 
Monday  April 27th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 27 percent, which makes me a suburban creep.
 
Barry Kent has been late three times in one week. So it is my unfortunate duty to report him to Mr Scruton.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) let Barry Kent off with a warning.
2) report Barry Kent.
3) ask Barry Kent for 25p to keep quiet.
3
I ask Barry Kent for 25p to keep quiet. Barry Kent just laughs.
 
Next Stub It Out meeting. I feel that direct action is necessary to further the non-smoking cause.
What shall I do?
1) declare my bedroom a non-smoking zone.
2) write anti-smoking graffiti in the toilets.
3) volunteer to deface an advertising board.
3
I volunteer to deface an advertising board near the school. It has a giant picture of a cigarette packet with the slogan, "Black Gold".
 
Tuesday  April 28th.
Barry Kent duffs me up in the cloakroom. He hangs me from a coathook and demands that I tell him when anyone is late. He wants to blackmail them.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) try to escape.
2) refuse.
3) agree.
3
I agree. After all, no one will be late if it means being menaced by Barry Kent! It is my duty as a prefect to tell him.
 
10.30 a.M. The poster has a giant picture of a cigarette packet with the slogan "Black Death". Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
Wednesday  April 29th.
I.S.I.R.T.A. On World Service. Very hilarious.
 
Thursday  April 30th.
The cigarette poster has been repaired.
 
Friday  May 1st.
 
Saturday  May 2nd.
Told Bert my mother has run away with an insurance man. He said 'Was it an Act of God?' Then he laughed until his eyes watered.
 
Sunday  May 3rd  SECOND AFTER EASTER.
I have decided to decorate my room. I can't live a moment longer with Noddy wallpaper. At my age it is positively indecent to wake up to Big Ears and the rest of the Toyland idiots running round the walls. My father says I can do what I like as long as I buy everything needed and do it myself.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) make up my mind to wallpaper the room.
2) decide to paint the walls.
3) decide to try something different.
3
I decide to try something different. Most rooms are dead boring. I need to surround myself with intellectual inspiration.
What shall I do?
1) choose a textured filler to spread on the walls.
2) choose cork tiles.
3) choose carpet on the walls.
3
I choose carpet on the walls. All the best places have this! Then I work out the cost.I make up my mind to wallpaper the room. I don't know why people think this is difficult.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) choose more Noddy paper.
2) choose a pattern of rocket ships.
3) choose bamboo pattern paper.
3
I choose bamboo pattern paper. It is dead cultural and dead expensive; I can only just afford it because of the end-of-line, seconds, special offer signs.
 
The stupid cashier refuses to sell me any wallpaper paste. It is company policy because I am young. Another customer has to buy it for me, then I pay him.
 
Monday  May 4th  BANK HOLIDAY IN UK. NEW MOON.
I, Adrian Mole, score 28 percent, which makes me an ordinary creep.
 
My room is finished. The bamboo pattern looks dead good. I will hang a curtain over the corner where the paper ran out.
 
Tuesday  May 5th.
 
Wednesday  May 6th.
Went to the youth club with Nigel. It was dead good. We played ping-pong until the balls cracked.
 
Thursday  May 7th.
Next SIT meeting. Only I turned up. Decided to suspend Stub It Out for a while.Mr Hill told us about training animals in Science today. He says you can teach any animal by rewarding it for doing what you want. He doesn't know our dog. No one could teach it anything!
 
Friday  May 8th.
I told my father about training animals and now he wants me to try training the dog!!! All because it ate his Daily Express again.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) say it's not MY dog.
2) agree to help.
3) explain that you can't teach an old dog new tricks.
3
I explain that you can't teach an old dog new tricks but he says it's always learning new ways of costing him money.
 
Saturday  May 9th.
Radio 4 play about unhappiness.
 
Sunday  May 10th  THIRD AFTER EASTER. MOTHER'S DAY, USA AND CANADA. MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
 
Monday  May 11th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 29 percent, which makes me a middling creep.
 
I ask Mr Hill about teaching dogs. He says it must be easier than teaching kids. Just my luck to have a comedian for a teacher!!!
 
Tuesday  May 12th.
The stupid dog is looking worried. I wonder if it knows that I've written to Barbara Woodhouse?
 
Wednesday  May 13th.
Pandora is an expert with animals. She trained her horse, Blossom, to jump over fences by breathing up its nose. She breathed up its nose, I mean. Not that Blossom was jet-propelled. Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
She also gave it sugar lumps as a reward. I wonder if I should reward the dog?
What shall I do?
1) breathe up the dog's nose.
2) get some dog biscuits.
3) buy sugar lumps for the dog.
3
I buy sugar lumps for the dog. It seems to like them, but I have second thoughts. Probably it is another sign of being an intellectual. Sugar cubes may be bad for the dog's teeth; perhaps I can make icing from them.
 
Thursday  May 14th.
School was dead good. Barry Kent was sent home for wearing a punk rock T-shirt.
 
Friday  May 15th.
I have decided to be a poet. My father says there is no career structure and no pension and other boring things, but I am quite decided.
 
Saturday  May 16th.
Nigel has arranged a blind date for me with Sharon Bott. I am meeting her at the roller-skating rink next Saturday. I am dead nervous. I don't even know how to roller-skate.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) borrow Nigel's disco skates.
2) ask my father to buy a pair of skates.
3) chicken out.
3
I chicken out. From what I hear, Sharon Bott is altogether too much for me to handle.
 
Sunday  May 17th.
Nigel came round this morning. He is still mad about Pandora. I tried to take his mind off her by talking about the Norwegian leather industry but he couldn't get interested somehow.
 
Monday  May 18th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 27 percent, which makes me a suburban creep.
 
 
Tuesday  May 19th  FULL MOON.
Barry Kent said he would do me over unless I gave him twenty-five pence every day. I told him he was wasting his time demanding money with menaces from me. I never have any spare money. My parents put my pocket money straight into my building society account and give me fifteen pence a day for a Mars bar. Barry Kent said I would have to give him my dinner money! I told him my father pays it by cheque since it went up by sixty pence a day, but Barry Kent hit me in the goolies and walked off saying, "There's more where that came from".
Which of the following shall I do?
1) tell Scruton about Barry Kent.
2) offer Barry Kent my Mars bar money.
3) put my name down for a paper round.
3
I put my name down for a paper round.
 
Wednesday  May 20th.
Woke up with a pain in my goolies. Told my father. He wanted to look but I didn't want him to so he said I would have to soldier on. He wouldn't give me a note excusing me from Games, so I had to stumble around in the mud again.
 
Bert Baxter was laughing about the dog. My father told him that I had forgotten about training it. This is not true! We Moles never forget.
What shall I do?
1) train it as an attack dog.
2) train it to fetch the newspaper.
3) train it to sit.
3
I train it to sit. The dog is good at this. But it is not so good at standing up when called. I thought it had got the idea once, and made a fuss of it as a reward, but the dog just wanted a stretch.
 
Thursday  May 21st.
Nigel says the dog didn't know I was calling it. It thought I was shouting at some other dog! He says I should experiment with names and suggests we call the dog Clint because of the squinty glint in its eyes.
 
Friday  May 22nd.
Saw Barry Kent smoking quite openly in the school corridor. He has certainly got a nerve! I felt it was my duty to report him to Mrs Bull. I did this purely out of concern for Barry Kent's health.
 
Saturday  May 23rd.
Unblocked Bert Baxter's drain, it was full of old bones and tea leaves. I told Bert that he really ought to use tea-bags. After all this is the twentieth century.
 
Sunday  May 24th  ROGATION SUNDAY.
Success! Clint the dog will come when called. Everyone is most impressed. I could be a farmer when I grow up, because of my skill with animals. I have always wanted to be rich.
 
Monday  May 25th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 27 percent, which makes me a suburban creep.
 
 
Tuesday  May 26th  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
Got a letter from Mr Cherry the newsagent to say I can start a paper round tomorrow. Worse luck!
 
Wednesday  May 27th.
Got up at six o'clock for my paper round. I got Elm Tree Avenue. It is dead posh. All the papers they read are very heavy: The Times, the Guardian and the Daily Torygraph. Just my luck!
 
Thursday  May 28th  ASCENSION DAY.
Exhausted by my paper round. Delivered 25 Punch magazines as well as the papers.
 
Friday  May 29th.
The people at 65 Elm Tree Avenue have a ferocious Alsatian. It barks and leaps at the front door and tries to bite my hand as I post their newspaper. I am glad the dog is locked inside the house.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) leave the paper on the doorstep.
2) lure the dog away.
3) waggle their Telegraph through the letter-box.
3
I waggle their Telegraph through the letter-box so that the dog chews it to bits. Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
Saturday  May 30th.
Delivered a telephone directory today. It is called Byte.
 
Sunday  May 31st  SUNDAY AFTER ASCENSION.
 
Monday  June 1st  BANK HOLIDAY IN THE REP. OF IRELAND.
I, Adrian Mole, score 26 percent, which makes me a spotty creep.
 
The papers got mixed up today. Elm Tree Avenue got the Sun and the Mirror, while the Corporation Row council estate got the heavy papers.
 
I don't know why everyone went so mad. You'd think they would enjoy reading a different paper for a change.
 
Mr Hill asked me to give a talk in Science about training Clint. He said it was a success story for scientific principle.
 
Tuesday  June 2nd  NEW MOON.
Mr Cherry gave me hundreds of newspaper Bingo cards to deliver with the papers. I said that I didn't have time before school, but he told me to do my best.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) push all the cards through one letter-box.
2) deliver the Bingo cards properly.
3) keep the cards for a while.
3
I keep the cards for a while. There is no time to deliver them in the morning.
What shall I do?
1) deliver them after school instead.
2) sell the cards to Barry Kent.
3) keep the cards myself.
3
I keep the cards myself. Perhaps I will win a million!
 
Wednesday  June 3rd.
Clint has been kidnapped! There was an awful noise of falling dustbins last night. My father wanted to wait until morning, but I made him investigate.
 
There was a scrap of paper pinned to our front door. It said, "The DOG you were EXPERIMENTING ON has been RESCUED. Ban ALL EXPERIMENTS on ANIMALS. Signed the Animal Liberation Faction". Clint was gone from the coal shed. I 'phoned the police but they were busy.
 
I was seriously menaced at school today; Barry Kent threw my snaplock executive briefcase on to the rugby pitch. I have got to find two pounds quickly before he starts throwing ME onto the rugby pitch.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) ask my father.
2) ask Mr Cherry.
3) ask Bert Baxter.
3
I ask Bert Baxter for money. He says I should neither a borrower nor a lender be and gives me fifty pence.
 
Thursday  June 4th.
A policewoman arrived first thing this morning. She read the note from the A.L.F. And asked for a sample of my handwriting. I am being victimised! Even my father is suspicious.
 
Friday  June 5th.
No sign of the dog.
 
Saturday  June 6th.
Me and my father cleaned the house. We had no choice. My grandma is coming to tea.
 
Sunday  June 7th  WHIT SUNDAY.
Still no sign of the dog.
 
Monday  June 8th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 23 percent, which makes me a namby-pamby creep.
 
I must do something to find Clint the dog.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) ask Barry Kent about the dog.
2) ask Pandora for help.
3) ask grandma for help.
3
I ask grandma for help, but she says she does not know any dognappers.
 
Tuesday  June 9th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
Barry Kent is a member of the Animal Liberation Faction. There is a horrible magazine from them in his desk. It is all about monkeys.
 
Barry Kent must have the dog.
What shall I do?
1) tell grandma that Barry Kent has our dog.
2) tell Barry Kent that I know he has Clint.
3) tell my father that Barry Kent has the dog.
3
I tell my father that Barry Kent has the dog. He will go round there tomorrow.
 
Checked the Bingo cards. Thirty-nine of them were just one number away from winning a million pounds. How unlucky can you get, us Moles must be cursed! So near and yet I won nothing!
 
It is the same with my father. He collected fifty moneymatch cards at the petrol station yet none of them matched.
 
Wednesday  June 10th.
I told my father about being seriously menaced today. I was forced to because Barry Kent seriously damaged the badge on my school blazer.
 
Thursday  June 11th.
My father told the police about Barry Kent, but they can do nothing without evidence. That never stops the Sweeney on TV!
 
Friday  June 12th.
Barry Kent duffed me up in the cloakroom today. He called me a copper's nark and other things too bad to write down.
 
Saturday  June 13th.
Barry Kent denied all knowledge of the dog, and laughed when my father asked for it back. My father went to see his father and had a serious argument. I think my father is dead brave. Barry Kent's father looks like a big ape and has got more hair on the back of his hands than my father has on his entire head.
 
My grandma found out about the argument..
 
She listened to the story and then she put on her coat, thinned her lips and went out. Soon afterwards she came back in, took her coat off, fluffed her hair out and called Barry Kent in. He was leading the dog.
 
Sunday  June 14th  TRINITY SUNDAY.
The dog has forgotten all its training. It showed its gratitude by eating my father's Daily Express.My grandma got to find out about the menacing (my father didn't want her to know on account of her diabetes). She listened to it all then she put her hat on, thinned her lips and went out. She was gone one hour and seven minutes, she came in, took her coat off, fluffed her hair out and took #27.18 from the anti-mugger belt round her waist. Then she got the tea ready. Pilchards, tomatoes and ginger cake. I bought her a box of diabetic chocolates from the chemist's as a token of my esteem.
 
Monday  June 15th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 22 percent, which makes me a lowly creep.
 
It is all round the school that an old lady of seventy-six frightened Barry Kent and his dad into returning my menaces money. Barry Kent daren't show his face. His gang are electing a new leader.
 
Tuesday  June 16th.
Did a good drawing of the Incredible Hulk smashing Craig Thomas to bits. Ms Fossington-Gore said it was a powerful statement of monolithic oppression.
 
Wednesday  June 17th  FULL MOON.
Got a present from Auntie Susan. It is an embroidered toothbrush holder and it was made by one of the prisoners! She is called Grace Pool. Auntie Susan said that I should write and thank her! It is bad enough that my father's sister works in Holloway Prison. But now I am expected to start writing to the prisoners! Grace Pool could be a murderess or anything!
 
Thursday  June 18th.
The dog is at the vet's again. It trod in the glue my father was using to tile the kitchen floor. Its paws got stuck tight and my father had to cut round the dog with a Stanley knife. I told the stupid dog to keep out of the kitchen, but would it listen?
 
Friday  June 19th.
 Thought about writing to thank Grace Pool.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) write to Auntie Susan instead.
2) don't write.
3) write to thank her for the present.
3
I write to thank her for the present. She is in 'D' Wing. I put:
 
Dear Miss Pool, Thank you for making the toothbrush holder. It is charming.
  Yours, with kind regards, Adrian
 
Saturday  June 20th.
Dead good play on Radio 4 about editorial censorship.
 
Sunday  June 21st  FIRST AFTER TRINITY. FATHER'S DAY.
 
Monday  June 22nd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 23 percent, which makes me a namby-pamby creep.
 
Pandora and I had a good talk about life today. We both agreed that on the whole it is a good thing so at last we agree on something.
 
Tuesday  June 23rd.
I am getting worried about exams. My problem is that I am too intellectual. I am always thinking things like: is there a God? And: Why is there VAT on computerised books but not on printed ones? These thoughts clutter my brain up and won't let me remember facts.
 
Wednesday  June 24th.
Wake up with a sore throat, can't swallow. Shivery. Everything a hazy blur.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) attract attention by banging on the floor with my shoe.
2) shout downstairs.
3) tuck a message inside the dog's collar.
3
I tuck a message inside the dog's collar and send it downstairs. Wait for ages, then hear the dog barking in the street. It hasn't delivered the message!
 
I have to go to the toilet, but how I get there I don't know. Then I am forced to go downstairs and tell my father I am ill. My father looks in my mouth and says, "Christ Almighty, Adrian, your tonsils look like Polaris missiles! What are you doing down here? Get back into bed at once, you fool".
 
Thursday  June 25th  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
I have got tonsillitis. It is official. I am on antibiotics.
 
Friday  June 26th.
Pandora sits by my bed reading to me. Every word is like a rock dropping on my head.
What shall I do?
1) ask her to stop.
2) endure it in silence.
3) decide to read to her when she is ill.
3
I decide to read to her when she is ill.
 
Saturday  June 27th.
A 'get well' card from my mother.
 
Sunday  June 28th  SECOND AFTER TRINITY.
Doctor says our thermometer is faulty. I feel slightly better.
 
Monday  June 29th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 21 percent, which makes me an unrespectable creep.
 
Pandora brought me a 'get well' card. She made it herself with felt-tip pens. She signed it: "Forever yours, Pan". I wanted to kiss her but my lips are cracked. 
 
Why hasn't my mother been to see me?
 
Tuesday  June 30th.
My mother has just left to catch the train for Sheffield. I am worn out with all the emotion. I am having a relapse.
 
I, Adrian Mole, score 21 percent, which makes me an unrespectable creep.
 
 
That's the end of this part of the game. Would you like to continue with the next part? 
YES
Check the program tape/disk is in the drive and press ENTER or RETURN. If using tape, check the recorder is set to PLAY (if the tape isn't moving, press ENTER or RETURN again).
Welcome to the Secret Diary of Adrian Mole from Level 9 and Mosaic. If you are loading from tape, and it has not stopped, then STOP THE TAPE IMMEDIATELY.
 
 
Wednesday  July 1st  DOMINION DAY, CANADA. NEW MOON.
 
Thursday  July 2nd.
My school work is plummeting down to new depths. I only got five out of twenty for spelling. I think I might be anorexic.
 
Friday  July 3rd.
 
Saturday  July 4th  INDEPENDENCE DAY, USA.
Rained.
 
Sunday  July 5th  THIRD AFTER TRINITY.
Bored stiff all day. Other families go out to safari parks but we never do. When I am a parent I will fill my children with stimulation at weekends and holidays.
 
Monday  July 6th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 21 percent, which makes me an unrespectable creep.
 
Postcard from my mother, she wants me to go on holiday with her and creep Lucas. They are going to Scotland. I hope they enjoy themselves.
 
Tuesday  July 7th.
 
Wednesday  July 8th.
Pandora has allowed me to touch her bust. I promised not to tell anyone, but there was nothing to tell really. I couldn't tell where her bust began through all the layers of underclothes, dress, cardigan and anorak. 
 
I am reading Sex, the Facts, by Dr A.P.G.Haig.
 
Thursday  July 9th.
The street is full of brown-skinned people trooping in and out of Mr Lucas's old house. 
 
Pandora and I are going round to welcome them to our district.
 
Friday  July 10th.
Cooked some bacon myself for breakfast. What a revelation, the rashers were about half water! I wonder if the EEC has a bacon lake?
 
Saturday  July 11th.
My father and me had a good talk last night. He asked me who I would prefer to live with, him or my mother?
Choose one of the following for me:
1) say her.
2) say him.
3) say both.
3
I say both. He told me he had made friends with a woman at work. She is called Doreen Slater. He said he would like me to meet her. Here we go again; so much for the suicidal, heartbroken, deserted husband.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) ring my grandma.
2) ring my mother.
3) ring Pandora.
3
I ring Pandora. She took the news very calmly. She said it made no difference to our love that I was descended from two shameless and immoral parents.
 
Sunday  July 12th  FOURTH AFTER TRINITY.
 
Monday  July 13th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 21 percent, which makes me an unrespectable creep.
 
Nigel is dead lucky. His house is absolutely fantastic! Everything is modern. I spent the whole day there and it really opened my eyes. Without knowing it I have been living in poverty for the past fourteen years. I have had to put up with inferior accommodation, lousy food and paltry pocket money. My father will just have to look for a decent well-paid job. Perhaps as a judge or a senior civil servant.
 
Tuesday  July 14th.
My father said he had Doreen Slater for tea. By the look of the house he'd had her for breakfast, dinner and tea! I have never seen the woman, but from the evidence she left behind she has got bright red hair, wears orange lipstick and sleeps on the left side of the bed!
 
Wednesday  July 15th.
Read 'Lord of the Rings' today. It is better than the film.
 
Thursday  July 16th.
Got another postcard from my mother. 
 
Dear Aidy, 
You've no idea how much I long to see you. The mothering bond is as strong as ever. I know you feel threatened by my involvement with Bimbo, but really Aidy there is no need. Bimbo fulfils my sexual needs. No more, no less. So, Aidy, grow up and come to Scotland. 
Lots of Love, Pauline (mother) 
 
P.S. We leave next Saturday. Catch 8.22 train to Sheffield.
 
Friday  July 17th  FULL MOON.
 
Saturday  July 18th.
My father has decided to go to Somerset. He has booked a four-berth caravan. He is taking Doreen and Maxwell with him! He expects ME to go!
What shall I do?
1) decide to go to Scotland.
2) decide to go to Somerset.
3) decide to stay at home.
3
I decide to stay at home. It must be better than Scotland or Somerset.
 
Sunday  July 19th  FIFTH AFTER TRINITY.
Written to Mars, volunteering my services as a Mars bar tester in place of their monkeys.
 
Monday  July 20th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 20 percent, which makes me a second-rate creep.
 
Pandora thinks a trial separation will do us good. She says our light to medium petting will turn quite heavy soon.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) decide to go to Scotland.
2) decide to go to Somerset.
3) toss a pound.
3
I toss a pound coin.
 
Tuesday  July 21st.
My father had a letter that made his face go white: he has been made redundant from his job. I am now a single-parent child whose parent is on the dole! How can we live on the pittance the government will give us? I made my father lots of hot, sweet drinks for shock; he kept going on about electric storage heaters and saying he would spill the beans to the media. 
 
He rang Doreen Slater and she came round straightaway, she had a horrible little kid called Maxwell with her. It was quite a shock to see Doreen Slater for the first time. Why my father wanted to have carnal knowledge of her I can't imagine. She is as thin as a stick insect.
 
Wednesday  July 22nd.
Doreen and Maxwell stayed the night.
 
Last night in Leicester.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) say goodbye to Pandora.
2) make sure to pack everything.
3) have an early night.
3
I have an early night. It could be my last day in civilisation for quite a while.
 
Thursday  July 23rd.
 
Friday  July 24th  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
Doreen is living with us. She is straight all the way up and down, including her nose and mouth and hair.
What shall I do?
1) make friends with the stick insect.
2) tell my father to choose between me and the stick insect.
3) shop Doreen to the DHSS.
3
I shop Doreen to the DHSS. She is cohabiting with my father while getting benefit. If she leaves, my mother is more likely to come back.
 
Saturday  July 25th.
My father, Stick Insect and Maxwell House saw me off at the station. My father didn't mind a bit that I chose to go to Scotland. In fact he looked dead cheerful. 
 
My mother and creep Lucas met me at Sheffield. My mother has started dressing in clothes that are too young for her. Lucas creep was wearing jeans! His belly hangs over his belt.
 
Sunday  July 26th  SIXTH AFTER TRINITY.
We are in a log cabin beside a lake called Loch Lubnaig. My mother and Lucas have gone to the village to try to buy cigarettes. At least that is their story.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) send thistle postcards.
2) phone Pandora, reversed charges.
3) walk into Callander to buy a Mars bar.
3
I walk into Callander to buy a Mars bar. Two and a half miles. Play on Space Invaders. Come back.
 
Monday  July 27th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 17 percent, which makes me a spotty bully boy.
 
Rained all day.
 
Tuesday  July 28th.
Did some washing in a log cabin launderette.
 
Wednesday  July 29th.
Rained.
 
Thursday  July 30th.
Rain stopped.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) go to see a waterfall in the car.
2) play patience.
3) go for a long walk around the Loch.
3
I go for a long walk around the Loch.
 
Friday  July 31st  NEW MOON.
I am in torment! My skin itches from hundreds of bites. 
 
A million blood-sucking midges ambushed me in the long grass yesterday. I tried to beat them off with a branch but it was hopeless. The only thing was to run back to the cabin and lock the door.
 
Saturday  August 1st.
Went to see Rob Roy's grave. Saw it, came back.
What shall I do?
1) send a haggis postcard to Pandora.
2) phone Pandora, reversed charges.
3) phone Pandora normally.
3
I phone Pandora normally. Her father answers the phone. By the time he has fetched her my last 10p is in use. Exchange words of love as the pips sound.
 
Sunday  August 2nd  SEVENTH AFTER TRINITY.
My mother has made friends with a couple called Mr and Mrs Ball and it is Mrs Ball's birthday so they all came back to our log cabin to celebrate. I complained about the noise at 1am, 2am, 3am, and 4am. At 5am they decide to climb the mountain!
Choose one of the following for me:
1) walk into Callander to buy a Guardian for intellectual stimulus.
2) try to persuade them of the dangers.
3) go along to advise.
3
I go along to advise. They are all blind drunk, unqualified, unfit and lacking in knowledge of the hills, but I have read Jack London and know about survival in adversity.
 
3p.M. The crumblies skipped up the mountain like goats while I sweltered in long woollen socks, two pullovers, kagoul and fifteen pound rucksack of essential supplies.
 
Monday  August 3rd  BANK HOLIDAY IN SCOTLAND AND REP. OF IRELAND.
I, Adrian Mole, score 16 percent, which makes me a mediocre bully boy.
 
 
Tuesday  August 4th.
Edinburgh. Saw castle, museum, art gallery. Bought haggis.
 
Wednesday  August 5th.
Glasgow. 11am. Counted twenty-seven drunks in one mile! My mother nagged creep Lucas into taking us to the Glasgow art gallery.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) phone Pandora instead.
2) follow them inside.
3) return to the car and read 'Glencoe'.
3
I return to the car and read 'Glencoe'by John Prebble.
 
Thursday  August 6th.
Oban.
 
Friday  August 7th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
Fort William. Ben Nevis was another disappointment. The other mountains and hills clutter it up. Lucas fell in the burn (Scottish for 'little river') but unfortunately it was too shallow to drown in.
 
Saturday  August 8th.
 
Sunday  August 9th  EIGHTH AFTER TRINITY.
Going home.
What shall I do?
1) buy a tiny bottle of whisky for my father.
2) buy a tartan scribbling pad and pencil and write 'My thoughts on Scotland'.
3) buy lots of souvenirs.
3
I buy lots of souvenirs. All tartan, even grandma's fudge.
 
Home. Too tired to write more.
 
Monday  August 10th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 14 percent, which makes me a namby-pamby bully boy.
 
The stick insect and my father are having anxiety attacks. A sex snooper is poking his nose about, asking the neighbours who is living where. Doreen will have to leave or lose her social security benefit. It is tragic but all for the best.
 
Tuesday  August 11th.
 
Wednesday  August 12th.
Nice sunny day. I was forced to draw my curtains to keep out the dazzling light.
 
Thursday  August 13th.
 
Friday  August 14th.
I am going on a camping trip with the Youth Club tomorrow. My father promised to help, but he can't tear himself away from the video, so I will have to spend all night washing and ironing. 
 
My nylon sleeping bag is a bit yukky. It wasn't cleaned last year.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) pack it anyway.
2) wash it in the bath.
3) put it in the washing machine.
3
I put it in the washing machine. I would normally ask my mother for instructions on how to work the machine, but she is off slumming it with rat-fink Lucas. Because of her neglect, I wash the sleeping bag on 'white heavy soil'.
The sleeping bag drips water over everything.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) hang it on the clothes line outside.
2) drape it over a table in front of the fanheater.
3) pack it anyway.
3
I pack it anyway. It is so swollen with water that it fills my rucksack. The rest of my luggage must go in carrier bags.
 
Saturday  August 15th  FULL MOON.
Up at 5am to do final packing. I woke my father at 5.30 to ask if there was a jar of crab paste for my sandwiches. His response was very unhelpful. Why can't my parents be more like the parents in adverts? THEY never lose their tempers and are always smiling and being helpful to their children. 
 
My father eventually got up at 6am and helped me to repack my rucksack. He took out my copy of War & Peace and substituted a little book called Campfire Cookery for Beginners. 
 
At 7am the Youth Club minibus arrived, blaring its horn. The Youth Leader, Rick Lemon, tried to stop the kids from shouting things out of the window but he didn't succeed.
 
Sunday  August 16th  NINTH AFTER TRINITY.
Everyone is being most unkind. Water from my wet sleeping bag soaked all their luggage.
 
I am writing this at dawn in a muddy desolate field in Derbyshire. When we set up camp the ground looked smooth and flat. In the darkness it changed into the side of a lumpy hill.
 
Got up to admire the majestic scenery as soon as it was light, but all I can see is thick grey mist. I will prepare breakfast instead. 
 
Disaster! I can't cook breakfast! No one brought a tin-opener!
What shall I do?
1) use a table knife.
2) ask Rick to go and buy one.
3) use a rock.
3
I use a rock. A medium-sized pointy lump of Millstone Grit. Wash it, boil to sterilise, then bash the tin with it. I make a big hole without too much difficulty. A few stone fragments fall into the food, but minerals are good for you. Ha! Ha!
 
Monday  August 17th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 11 percent, which makes me a second-rate bully boy.
 
Rick Lemon, the Youth Leader, is organising a ten-mile hike across the hills for the group.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) climb a nearby hill instead.
2) go with them.
3) volunteer to stay behind and cook a campfire meal.
3
I volunteer to stay behind and cook a campfire meal and look after the dog. Must stop. I've got to prepare a stew for eleven hungry people.
 
Tuesday  August 18th.
Only Pandora is speaking to me. It's not my fault that the dog knocked over the saucepan of stew. Everyone is going mountain climbing.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) volunteer to stay behind and keep the camp fire burning.
2) join in.
3) go along and watch.
3
I go along and watch. I will be able to help by pointing out footholds and any dangers.
 
Wednesday  August 19th.
Mountain climbing is very risky and it was my duty to keep pointing this out. What if someone had fallen? It is not my fault that Barbara Boyer became terrified and had to be rescued!
 
Thursday  August 20th.
One more day of this ordeal to go. I long for clean sheets and my electric toothbrush.
 
Friday  August 21st.
8p.M. It is wonderful to be back in civilisation! 
 
I have lived like an ignoble savage! Sleeping on rough ground with only a tent and sleeping bag between me and the elements! Trying to cook chips over a tiny primus stove! Not being able to have a bath or clean my teeth! Having to perform my natural functions out in the open! Wiping my bum on leaves! No television or radio or anything!
 
Saturday  August 22nd  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
I am determined to learn to wiggle my ears; it is a useful talent at parties.
 
Sunday  August 23rd  TENTH AFTER TRINITY.
 
Monday  August 24th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 11 percent, which makes me a second-rate bully boy.
 
 
Tuesday  August 25th.
TV program about insurance. It seems that you need insurance against the risk of your insurance not paying up.
 
Wednesday  August 26th.
 
Thursday  August 27th.
The slugs have eaten my father's vegetable patch again.
 
Friday  August 28th.
Someone is knocking at the front door.
What shall I do?
1) go to the door.
2) wait for a while, hoping they will go away.
3) shout to my father to answer.
3
I shout to my father to answer it, but he pretends not to hear. My father is hiding upstairs because of not paying tax on his spice-rack earnings.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) tiptoe quietly away.
2) go to the door.
3) look out of the front room window.
3
I look out of the front room window. Two official-looking men in smart suits are standing on the doorstep.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) tiptoe quietly away.
2) open the door.
3) ask who they are through the letterbox.
3
I ask who they are through the letterbox. It would not do to talk to left-wingers, not if I want the BBC to broadcast my poems, but my fears are soon allayed. The two just want to talk about Life. I invite them inside and we talk for a while. They are called Brothers Mark and Luke and are Witnesses of Jesus. Luke gives me a big-type magazine called the Watchword which is full of exclamation marks, and asks me to attend a service with the Witnesses on Sunday. I do not want to do this!
What shall I do?
1) say that I am an agnostic atheist.
2) drag my father from hiding.
3) order them to leave.
3
I order them to leave. This is most embarrassing because the Witnesses of Jesus seem like nice people, but I am forced to assert my rights because I do not have all day.
 
Saturday  August 29th  FULL MOON.
Stayed in bed until 6p.M. There was no point in getting up. Pandora has gone to a gymkhana.
 
Sunday  August 30th  ELEVENTH AFTER TRINITY.
Brainbox Henderson got a new computer printer for his birthday, to go with his word processor. It is a state-of-the-art laser printer from Micro Periphery. He showed me some printing and it looked dead good. I expect the laser singes letters onto the paper.
 
12p.M. I know why the BBC have rejected all my poems! I was blind not to see it earlier.
 
Monday  August 31st  BANK HOLIDAY IN UK (EXCEPT SCOTLAND).
I, Adrian Mole, score 10 percent, which makes me a useless bully boy.
 
I explained to my father that the BBC rejected my poems because the typing wasn't good enough. My mother's typewriter is to blame; it is knackered and prints each letter half red and half black.
 
If they lent me the money for a word processor and laser printer like Henderson's, my poems would look really nice when printed, the BBC would buy them, and I would get more than enough money to repay the loan.
 
My stupid father would not understand. My father said he had no money and it was bad enough Reagan putting lasers in space without me bringing them home. It is traumas like this that turn people into axe-wielding maniacs!
 
Tuesday  September 1st.
The dog costs a fortune to keep. I know because my father has added up its bills for a year. He says it has got to go. I don't agree but I will put an advert in the local rag.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) amuse myself by writing a truthful advert.
2) write a simple, dishonest advert.
3) write a short classified advert.
3
I write a short classified advert for the dog: "GREAT VALUE. #49.99 inc usual accessories. 1971. Immac, Good runner, Reliable, One owner, Full service history. Must sell. Leicester 944550".
Which of the following shall I do?
1) book 1 insertion in the Leicester Star.
2) show it to Pandora.
3) book 3 insertions in the Leicester Free Advertiser.
3
I book 3 insertions in the Leicester Free Advertiser.
 
Wednesday  September 2nd.
I saw Henderson's printer today. It looked like a small photocopier. All it did was hum. No zapping or smoke or anything. What a disappointment!
 
Thursday  September 3rd.
7.10a.M. Answer the door while my father is in the bathroom. An Arthur Daley character in a pin-striped suit points at my advert in the paper and asks "Is this the right place, squire?" He is taken aback a bit when I say I am the vendor, but recovers quickly. He thinks fifty quid is a fair price, in fact he has the money on him! 
 
I am unable to say if the dog is licensed and insured, but say that it probably is. The man does not need to inspect it, because it was standing outside when he arrived and it looked OK. He holds out a wad of money and says "Do we have a deal?"
What shall I do?
1) say "maybe".
2) say "No".
3) say "yes".
3
I say "yes". The sale is made!
 
Friday  September 4th.
Yesterday was the most terrible day of my life. The pinstriped man was a used car salesman! He thought he had bought my father's new second-hand car for fifty pounds! 
 
He gave me the money and, before I could react, took the keys from the windowsill and started the car. 
 
Just then my father came downstairs from the bathroom and World War Three broke out. I hid until things quietened down, but they didn't because the phone never stopped ringing and thousands of people came to the door. They were all furious when I admitted it was the dog on sale. 
 
At least we got the car back.
 
Brainbox Henderson can't use his laser printer properly.
 
Its instructions list what the printer can do, and you must refer to the Subsystem Manual for details. But this is missing.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) agree to help.
2) advise him to complain.
3) say it's his problem.
3
I say it's his problem. I don't know anything about computers.
 
Saturday  September 5th.
 
Sunday  September 6th  TWELFTH AFTER TRINITY. MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
 
Monday  September 7th  LABOR DAY, USA AND CANADA.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent, which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
Maxwell bust a mirror while playing; he was using it to admire his own reflection. The poor kid will have bad luck all through primary school.
 
Tuesday  September 8th.
 
Wednesday  September 9th.
 
Thursday  September 10th.
 
Friday  September 11th.
Pandora has offered to help Brainbox Henderson get his printer manual. I offer to help as well, but Henderson rudely says I don't know anything about computers. How does he know!
 
Saturday  September 12th.
Have taken up bird watching. Counted five black birds, twenty nine brown birds and one white bird in just half an hour.
 
Sunday  September 13th  THIRTEENTH AFTER TRINITY.
Pandora visited Henderson again. I hope they aren't lovers.
 
Monday  September 14th  FULL MOON.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent, which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  September 15th.
I've got to write an essay on the causes of the Second World war. What a waste of time! Everybody knows the causes. You can't go anywhere without seeing Hitler's photo.
 
Finished essay. Copied it out of Pear's Encyclopedia.
 
Wednesday  September 16th.
 
Thursday  September 17th.
 
Friday  September 18th.
 
Saturday  September 19th.
I have just seen the Greenham Women on the telly and my mother was with them! They were tying babies' bootees onto the wire surrounding the missile base. Then they held hands with each other. The newscaster said that 30,000 women were there. I explained to the dog that my mother was safeguarding its future, but it didn't understand.
 
Sunday  September 20th  FOURTEENTH AFTER TRINITY. MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
 
Monday  September 21st.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent, which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
Finally solved my Rubik Cube (I cheated). Living in permanent dread that someone will shuffle the colours again.
 
Tuesday  September 22nd.
Newspaper story about Freddie Laker. I don't think business men should take knighthoods. They are worse kisses of death than even government grants.
 
Wednesday  September 23rd.
Went to see Blossom. Pandora doesn't ride her now because her feet drag on the ground.
 
Thursday  September 24th.
 
Friday  September 25th.
Pandora and I are enjoying the last of the autumn together by walking through leaves and sniffing bonfires. This is the first year I have been able to pass a horse-chestnut tree without throwing a stick at it. Pandora says I am maturing very quickly.
 
Saturday  September 26th.
Went out conkering with Nigel tonight. I found five big beauties and smashed Nigel's into pulp. Ha! Ha! Ha!
 
Sunday  September 27th  FIFTEENTH AFTER TRINITY.
 
Monday  September 28th  NEW MOON.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent, which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
Took Blossom to see Bert. He can't walk far these days. Blossom is being sold to a rich family, a girl called Camilla is going to learn to ride on her. Pandora says Camilla is so posh as to be unintelligible. Bert was dead sad, he said, "You and me will both end up in the knackers yard, gel."
 
Tuesday  September 29th.
Blossom went off at 10.30am. I gave her a sixteen-pence apple to take her mind off the heartbreak. Pandora ran after the little horse-box, shouting, "I've changed my mind", but it carried on.
 
Wednesday  September 30th.
I am glad September is nearly over, it has been nothing but trouble. Blossom gone. Pandora sad. Bert on his last legs. My father still out of work. My mother still besotted with creep Lucas.
 
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent, which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
 
That's the end of this part of the game. Would you like to continue with the next part? 
YES
Check the program tape/disk is in the drive and press ENTER or RETURN. If using tape, check the recorder is set to PLAY (if the tape isn't moving, press ENTER or RETURN again).
Welcome to the final part of the Secret Diary of Adrian Mole from Level 9 and Mosaic. If you are loading from tape, and it has not stopped, then STOP THE TAPE IMMEDIATELY.
 
 
Thursday  October 1st.
A telegram! Addressed to me! The BBC? No, from my mother: "ADRIAN STOP COMING HOME STOP". What does she mean "Stop coming home"? How can I "stop coming home"? I live here.
 
Friday  October 2nd.
My mother has just turned up with no warning! She had all her suitcases with her. She has just thrown herself on the mercy of my father. My father has just thrown himself on the body of my mother. I tactfully withdraw to my bedroom where I am now trying to work out how I feel over my mother's return. On the whole I am over the moon, but I am dreading her looking around our squalid house. She will go mad when she finds out that I have lent Pandora her fox-fur coat.
 
Saturday  October 3rd.
My mother and father were still in bed when I left this morning.
 
Sunday  October 4th  SIXTEENTH AFTER TRINITY.
My mother has had a letter from creep Lucas! Inside he had written, "Paulie, have you got the dry-cleaning ticket for my best suit? Sketchley's are being very difficult". My father rang Sheffield and ordered Lucas to cease communications or risk getting a bit of Sheffield steel between his porky shoulder blades.
 
Monday  October 5th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
I am loved by two women! Barbara Boyer gave Victoria Louise Thompson a note in Science. It says "Ask Adrian Mole if he wants to go out with me". Victoria Louise Thompson (hereinafter known as V.L.T.) passed on the message.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) reply to V.L.T. In the affirmative.
2) reply to V.L.T. In the negative.
3) say nothing and wink at Barbara.
3
I say nothing and wink at Barbara Boyer (hereinafter known as B.B.).
 
Pandora has suggested I start a literary magazine using the school duplicator. I wrote the first edition during dinner-time. It is called The Voice of Youth.
 
Tuesday  October 6th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
I ate my dinner sitting next to B.B. She is a truly wonderful girl. She pointed out that Pandora has got a lot of faults. I am forced to agree with her.
 
Pandora looked at The Voice of Youth. She suggested that instead of writing the whole thing myself, I invite contributions from other talented scribblers.
What shall I do?
1) agree reluctantly.
2) persuade Pandora that she is wrong.
3) reject this argument.
3
I reject this argument. Only an intellectual has the qualities needed to write articulately. Imagine accepting material from someone who has not read Chekhov!
 
Wednesday  October 7th.
I am committing non-sexual adultery with Barbara. I am at the centre of an eternal triangle. I shall burst if I don't tell someone.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) tell Bert Baxter.
2) tell Pandora about Barbara.
3) tell my best friend Nigel but swear him to secrecy.
3
I tell my best friend Nigel but swear him to secrecy.
 
The Voice of Youth goes to press in a week. I am typing the stencils. Here is my editorial: 
 
Hi Kids, 
Well, here's your very own magazine. Yes! Written and produced entirely using child labour. I have tried to break new ground in our first edition. Many of you will be unaware of the achievements of the Norwegian leather industry and the joys of Great Literature. If so, hang on to your hats, you're in for a magic surprise. 
ADRIAN MOLE, EDITOR 
 
I am going to charge twenty-five pence a copy.
 
Thursday  October 8th.
I am thinking of writing an expose about Barry Kent for the Voice of Youth.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) decide against it.
2) go ahead.
3) advertise it on the cover but leave all the details for a later issue.
3
I advertise it on the cover but leave all the details for a later issue. Real magazines do this; I think it's to boost sales.
 
Nigel blabbed about me and B.B. All over the school. Pandora spent the afternoon in matron's office.
 
Friday  October 9th.
Pandora and I put the paper to bed. How I wish I were putting Pandora to bed.
 
Saturday  October 10th.
I have had a spiritual awakening. Two nice men with staring eyes called at the house while my parents were out. They are from a religious group called the Sunshine People. There are thousands of Sunshine People in every country, working for peace. They knew instantly that I was an intellectual, and said that my talents are being wasted by society. This is true. No one appreciates my true worth. 
 
The Sunshine People left me some religious leaflets and a personality profile to show where my true skills lie. They will be back in a week to give advice on personal development. The advice is free because by helping me they help to make the world a little bit better.
What shall I do?
1) throw the religious leaflets away.
2) read the Sunshine People leaflets.
3) tell my parents.
3
I tell my parents and my father goes raving mad! He says that most wars are caused by religion and that famines are the Pope's fault because he won't let people use birth control. He doesn't want me getting involved with a bunch of loony cranks.
 
Barbara has ended our brief affaire. I rang her up at the pet shop where she works part time cleaning the cages out. She said she couldn't bear to see the pain in Pandora's eyes. I have learnt an important lesson. Because of lust I am without love. Had a shave to cheer myself up.
 
Sunday  October 11th  SEVENTEENTH AFTER TRINITY.
 
Monday  October 12th  COLUMBUS DAY, USA. THANKSGIVING DAY, CANADA.
I, Adrian Mole, score 5 percent which makes me a namby-pamby dreg of society.
 
The Voice of Youth hits the classrooms tomorrow.
 
Tuesday  October 13th  FULL MOON.
We have been hit by a wildcat strike! Mrs Claricoates, the school secretary, has refused to handle The Voice of Youth. She says there is nothing in her job description to say that she has to mess about with school magazines.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) offer, on behalf of the editorial team, to duplicate copies ourselves.
2) say "Please".
3) complain to the Headmaster.
3
I complain to the Headmaster. What is a school secretary for if not to help the pupils? She certainly doesn't do any teaching!
 
Scruton is incapable of understanding, he says that Mrs Claricoates works very hard and does a difficult job very well. What does he know about work anyway? He always leaves early to play golf.
 
Wednesday  October 14th.
 
Thursday  October 15th.
Grandma's Christmas card arrived.
 
Friday  October 16th.
The house looks like a jungle. My mother has replaced the pot plants. I should report her to the RSPCP.
 
Saturday  October 17th.
I will have to get the five hundred copies of The Voice of Youth printed myself.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) visit Leicester Megaprint Ltd.
2) visit Printopress, my friendly neighbourhood highstreet copyshop.
3) visit A&M Litho, a small local printer.
3
I visit A&M Litho, a small local printer. It is dead scruffy and everyone looks like punks, but they are quite keen to print my magazine. It will cost ninety-six pounds if they do everything, or a bit less if we do the folding and stapling etc.
What shall I do?
1) give up. Printing is too expensive.
2) get A&M Litho to print the magazine.
3) ask Pandora's father to use his firm's photocopier.
3
I ask Pandora's father to use his firm's photocopier.
 
The Sunshine People came at six o'clock. My father made them stand on the doorstep in the rain. Their robes got wet through. My father said they were trying to brainwash a simple child. When they left my mother watched them walk up the cul-de-sac. She said, "They don't look very sunny now, they just look bloody wet."
 
Sunday  October 18th  EIGHTEENTH AFTER TRINITY.
Nothing happened today. This is what comes of living in a cul-de-sac.
 
Monday  October 19th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
Pandora's father is photocopying The Voice of Youth on his office machine. He didn't want to, but Pandora sulked in her room and refused to eat until he agreed.
 
Tuesday  October 20th.
Five hundred copies of The Voice of Youth were on sale in the dinner hall today. 
 
Five hundred copies were locked in the games cupboard by the end of the afternoon. Not one copy was sold! Not one! My fellow pupils are nothing but Philistines and Morons. 
 
We are dropping the price to twenty pence.
 
Wednesday  October 21st.
School was dead good today. My English essay 'Despair' got twenty out of twenty and was read out to the class. Everyone looked dead miserable by the end. Pandora's eyes were full of tears. I think I would like to be a full-time writer, it must be a dead cushy job just sitting around writing essays. I have sent 'Despair' to the BBC. It is a story about a hamster with an incurable illness. It's just the sort of thing Radio Four likes.
 
Thursday  October 22nd.
Had a letter from Grandma to ask why I hadn't sent her a Christmas card yet.
 
Friday  October 23rd.
I think it is very brave of our school to attempt a modern classic of the theatre. It is not every comprehensive that would have the nerve to do a free adaptation of The Cherry Orchard by Anton Chekhov. Pandora is auditioning today.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) audition too.
2) offer to work backstage.
3) have nothing to do with it.
3
I have nothing to do with it. Chekhov is Russian. Don't they know that cherries are RED?
 
Saturday  October 24th  UNITED NATIONS' DAY.
The doorbell rings. It must be the Sunshine People again.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) talk to them through the letterbox.
2) let them in.
3) hide behind the curtains.
3
I hide behind the curtains until they go away. I regret, dear diary, that I suspect their motives.
 
Sunday  October 25th  NINETEENTH AFTER TRINITY. BRITISH SUMMER TIME ENDS.
 
Monday  October 26th  BANK HOLIDAY IN THE REP. OF IRELAND.
I, Adrian Mole, score 6 percent which makes me an unimportant dreg of society.
 
Sold one copy of The Voice of Youth, to Barry Kent. He wanted to discover if we had said anything about him. He is a slow reader, so it will probably take him a week to find out. 
 
We are going to try dropping the price to fifteen pence to stimulate demand. There are now four hundred and ninety-nine copies to be sold.
 
Tuesday  October 27th  NEW MOON.
 
Wednesday  October 28th.
 
Thursday  October 29th.
 
Friday  October 30th.
 
Saturday  October 31st  HALLOWE'EN.
Saw the Sunshine People in the main Shopping Centre. They are handing out flowers and peace leaflets.
What shall I do?
1) telephone the police to complain.
2) pass by on the other side.
3) go over and talk to them.
3
I go over and talk to them about a better world. They invite me to a service at the Church of Sunshine in Leicester.
 
Sunday  November 1st  TWENTIETH AFTER TRINITY.
I find the Church of Sunshine. It is not like a real church, just a bright doorway in a side street. Two Sunshine Women stand outside with bundles of leaflets.
Choose one of the following for me:
1) stand and watch.
2) go in.
3) walk past.
3
I walk past. Religion is not for me. I am an agnostic atheist; during daylight, anyway.
 
Monday  November 2nd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 5 percent which makes me a namby-pamby dreg of society.
 
Trudged half-way to school. Dog followed me. Trudged back home. Shut dog in coal shed. Trudged all the way to school. Fifteen minutes late. Mr Scruton said it was not setting a good example for the late prefect to be late. It is all right for him to talk! He can ride to school in a Ford Cortina and then all he has to do is be in charge of a school. I have got a lot of problems and no car.
 
Tuesday  November 3rd  ELECTION DAY, USA.
The trees are stark naked. 
Their autumnal clothes 
Litter the pavements. 
Council sweepers apply fire 
Thus creating municipal pyres. 
I, Adrian Mole, 
Kick them 
And burn my Hush Puppies. 
 
I have copied it out carefully and sent it to John Tydeman at the BBC. He strikes me as a man who might like poems about autumn leaves.
 
Wednesday  November 4th.
 
Thursday  November 5th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
 
Friday  November 6th.
 
Saturday  November 7th.
I asked Pandora to marry me this morning. We were leaning over the frozen food cabinet at the Co-op at the time. Pandora said, "Adrian, don't distract me, I'm looking for bargain buys." I was astonished at her lack of romance.
 
When we got to the checkout I repeated my proposal but Pandora snapped, "Don't be ridiculous, I'm only 14." The cashier said, "I wouldn't marry at any age, my love. Men are nothing but beasts." I gave the woman an insolent look but she was counting change so she missed it. 
 
Pandora told me off for showing her up and made me carry the heavy shopping bag. My arm was nearly out of its socket by the time we got back to her house.
 
Sunday  November 8th  TWENTY-FIRST AFTER TRINITY. REMEMBRANCE SUNDAY.
Pandora is fed up with going out with me. She thinks I am getting too serious. I was heartbroken to hear this revelation. Does it mean she is no longer insanely in love with me? I need advice.
Which of the following shall I do?
1) tell Bert my problem.
2) ask my father how to manage women.
3) ask my mother for advice.
3
I ask my mother for advice. She says, "Adrian, why can't you just be fond of Pandora? Why do y you have to dramatise everything in your life?" She can talk - when she burns the toast she acts as if it was a scene from The Towering Inferno.
What shall I do?
1) take my mother's advice.
2) ask my father how to manage women.
3) tell Bert my problem.
3
I tell Bert my problem over tea at his and Queenie's bungalow. Bert says, "The way to manage women is to let them know who's master." To prove it he shouted at Queenie and ordered her to open a bottle of beer. She replied, "Do it yourself you lazy lump." Bert blushed and hid his face in Sabre's fur. Queenie said, "Play hard to get, Adrian. Pandora will soon come running."
Choose one of the following for me:
1) take Queenie's advice.
2) let Pandora know who's master.
3) take my mother's advice.
3
I take my mother's advice
 
Monday  November 9th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  November 10th.
 
Wednesday  November 11th  VETERAN'S DAY, USA. REMEMBRANCE DAY, CANADA. FULL MOON.
 
Thursday  November 12th.
 
Friday  November 13th.
 
Saturday  November 14th.
 
Sunday  November 15th  TWENTY-SECOND AFTER TRINITY.
 
Monday  November 16th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  November 17th.
 
Wednesday  November 18th  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
 
Thursday  November 19th.
 
Friday  November 20th.
 
Saturday  November 21st.
 
Sunday  November 22nd.
 
Monday  November 23rd.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  November 24th.
 
Wednesday  November 25th.
 
Thursday  November 26th  THANKSGIVING DAY, USA. NEW MOON.
 
Friday  November 27th.
 
Saturday  November 28th.
 
Sunday  November 29th  ADVENT SUNDAY.
 
Monday  November 30th  ST ANDREW'S DAY.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  December 1st.
 
Wednesday  December 2nd.
 
Thursday  December 3rd.
 
Friday  December 4th  MOON'S FIRST QUARTER.
 
Saturday  December 5th.
 
Sunday  December 6th  SECOND IN ADVENT.
 
Monday  December 7th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  December 8th.
 
Wednesday  December 9th.
 
Thursday  December 10th.
 
Friday  December 11th  FULL MOON.
 
Saturday  December 12th.
 
Sunday  December 13th  THIRD IN ADVENT.
 
Monday  December 14th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  December 15th.
 
Wednesday  December 16th.
 
Thursday  December 17th.
 
Friday  December 18th  MOON'S LAST QUARTER.
 
Saturday  December 19th.
 
Sunday  December 20th  FOURTH IN ADVENT.
 
Monday  December 21st.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  December 22nd.
 
Wednesday  December 23rd.
 
Thursday  December 24th.
 
Friday  December 25th  CHRISTMAS DAY.
 
Saturday  December 26th  BANK HOLIDAY IN UK AND REP. OF IRELAND (a day may be given in lieu). NEW MOON.
 
Sunday  December 27th  1ST AFTER CHRISTMAS.
 
Monday  December 28th.
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
Tuesday  December 29th.
 
Wednesday  December 30th.
 
Thursday  December 31st.
 
I, Adrian Mole, score 4 percent which makes me a lowly dreg of society.
 
 
The game is over, unless you'd like to play the final part again. Would you? 
#quit
